---
layout: default
title: Welcome
---
h1. Welcome

h2. What Is Buildr4OSGi ?

Buildr4OSGi extends the "Buildr":http://buildr.apache.org build system to integrate "OSGi":http://www.osgi.org/  projects as traditional Java projects.

* With "OSGi":http://www.osgi.org/ , you get the chance of requesting bundles and packages rather than linking to jars directly.
With Buildr4OSGi, we help you translate all your OSGi dependencies into a set of Java jars that you can use to build reproducibly your project.

* "OSGi":http://www.osgi.org/  bundles are not always present on Maven repositories. With Buildr4OSGi, we upload all your dependencies for you so you can share them accross the team and run your build on a CI server.

h2. Project News

* August 16, 2009: Our website is taking shape.

h2. Getting Started

"Install":/install.html Buildr4OSGi, "read":/simple_expample.html a simple example and "use":/reference.html the reference documentation. 

 
h2. Learn More

* "OSGi":http://www.osgi.org/ 

OSGi stands for Open Services Gateway initiative, funded in 1999. 

This organization specified a Java-based service platform, decomposed into Java components identified by manifest attributes.

If you never developed a OSGi bundle before today, this is not the best place to start (yet). We recommend you dive into the Eclipse world, check out the various OSGi runtimes available out there, and start doing something. 

When you know what your MANIFEST.MF file should look like, you will be ready for us.

* "Buildr":http://buildr.apache.org

Apache Buildr is a build system for Java-based applications, including support for Scala, Groovy and a growing number of JVM languages and tools.

Please take time to become familiar with Buildr before visiting us as most concepts used in this project are derived from the Buildr slang.
We recommend that you:
* Visit the "official site":http://buildr.apache.org.
* Try reading their "Getting Started page":http://buildr.apache.org/getting_started.html.

* "Intalio":http://www.intalio.com

Intalio is the first company to deliver an integrated cloud computing platform designed for the Enterprise. Intalio|Cloud leverages a unique combination of hardware and software to deliver an enterprise-grade cloud computing experience, with dynamic provisioning and elastic scalability, both on demand and on premises. While alternative offerings focus on the Infrastructure as a Service layer, Intalio|Cloud goes all the way up to the application layer, providing best-in-class solutions for BPM and CRM. 

Intalio has over 500 customers, across all vertical industries, in over 50 countries. We are an engineering-driven organization thriving to become a truly global process-managed enterprise. We are passionate about Open Source software, committed to delivering a sustainable Commercial Open Source Model (COSMO), and working hard to discover the chemistry of process.
